---
title: 'Mlog #001'
description: "My mlog for Halloween 2023"
published: true
pubDate: '31 Oct 2023'
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
tags: ["music", "gaming"]
---

## Movies

### Pokémon: The First Movie - Mewtwo Strikes Back

A classic. No notes.

### Pokémon: The Movie 2000

Less of a classic but I love Lugia and the legendary Kanto birds.

### Coyote Ugly

I enjoyed it for what it was and it's one of my girlfriend's favourite movies so we watched it together.

### Deep Blue Sea

Really fun action movie from the 90s and it's another of my girlfriend's favourite movies so we watched it together for her birthday.

## Games

### Pokémon Crystal Legacy

Really enjoying this ROM hack. Crystal is arguably the best Gen 2 game so to get an enhanced version makes it even better.

### Virtua Tennis 2

Now that I have a RGB30, I can play Dreamcast games easier and that means playing my favourite tennis game of all time (sorry, Mario Tennis). So fun!

### Tetris 64

I needed a Tetris fix and while this version isn't the best, it did its job.

### Octopath Traveler 2

I haven't started it yet but I bought it while on offer and I'm excited, although I do have [new game anxiety](https://www.reddit.com/r/patientgamers/comments/9wrpey/anxiety_about_starting_a_new_game/)!

## Videos

### Robert Palmer videos

I'm currently going through a Robert Palmer obsessive phase. He was so good.

### George Michael videos

I'm also going through another George Michael obsessive phase (I've had a few since the late 90s). Again, so good.

### Rival Locke

I needed something to listen and laugh to. If you don't know what a Rival Locke is, you should [watch the one I watched](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLAzDHex22XQypi_vE9biMsYXx4eENtINe).

### People making burgers

I love burgers and I love seeing people make smash burgers. I hope I can get one of those iron press thingies.

## Music

### Robert Palmer

[See above](/mlog/mlog-31-10-2023/#robert-palmer-videos).

### Ahwlee

Always on heavy rotation.

### Wun Two

See above.

### Zero 7

See above.

## Books

Bits of [Football Cliches](https://uk.bookshop.org/a/3710/9781472241344) (affiliate link)