---
title: "My Albums Of The Year List: 2016"
description: "Here's my list of the best albums of 2016"
pubDate: "1 Feb 2017"
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
tags: ['AOTY', 'music']
---

I started a tradition of posting my AOTY list at the end of January the following year to be different and left some of them marinate in my mind. There's always a rush to get the lists out and there's really no need.

I've added a new feature this year by splitting all the albums I've listened to into three categories - 😀, 😕 and 🥴. 😀 albums are the ones I enjoyed, 😕 are the ones I didn't and 🥴 are the ones I wasn't 100% sure about.

(Oh, and they're not in order. I've stopped doing that too.)

## 😀

- Scott Xylo - Analogue Eyes, With Digital Minds
- Craig Hartley - Books on Tape, Vol. II
- Anderson Paak - Malibu
- blue (aka isle child) - a boy and his dog
- David Bowie - Blackstar
- De La Soul - and the Anonymous Nobody
- Imperial & K.I.N.E.T.I.K. - Adventures In Technicolour
- Kaytranada - 99.9%
- Kendrick Lamar - untitled unmastered
- Yumi Rose - Heaven Only Knows
- Dave Douglas - Dark Territory
- Uri Caine - Calibrated Thickness
- Branford Marsalis Quartet - Upward Spiral
- Ray Obiedo - Latin Jazz Project, Vol. 1
- Bearcubs - Chroma
- Yussef Kamaal - Black Focus
- Sadevillain - Sadevillain EP
- Snarky Puppy - Culcha Vulcha
- PhybaOptikz - Shades of Alejandro
- Gregory Porter - Take Me To The Alley
- A Tribe Called Quest - We got it from Here…
- The Olympians - The Olympians
- Sarathy Kowar - Day To Day
- Joshua Redman - Nearness
- Angel Olsen - MY WOMAN
- Solange - A Seat At The Table
- Swet Shop Boys - Cashmere
- Childish Gambino - Awake, My Love!
- Julian Lage - Arclight
- Lady Gaga - Joanne
- Alfredo Rodriguez - Tocororo
- Alicia Keys - HERE
- Bruno Mars - 24K Magic
- John Legend - Darkness & Light
- Common - Black America Again
- Lee Fields & The Expressions - Special Night
- Marquis Hill - The Way We Play
- Justice - Woman
- Leonard Cohen - You Want It Darker
- Vaults - Caught in Still Life
- Robert Glasper, Miles Davis - Everything's Beautiful
- Theo Croker - Escape Velocity
- Ben L'Oncle Soul - Under My Skin
- Frankie Cosmos - Next Thing
- clipping. - Splendor & Misery
- Aesop Rock - The Impossible Kid
- Jay Som - Turn Into
- Jamie Lidell - Building A Beginning
- Ryuichi Sakamoto - Nagasaki: Memories Of My Son
- Reginald Omas Mamode IV - Reginald Omas Mamode IV
- Motion Graphics - Motion Graphics
- Black Milk - The Rebellion Sessions
- Alexis Davis - The Other Numbers
- Raycord - Exotic Jazz
- Xiomara - Seven Nineteen
- Little Simz - Stillness In Wonderland
- Apollo Brown - The Easy Truth
- Mndsgn - Body Wash
- Vulfpeck - The Beautiful Game
- NxWorries - Yes Lawd!
- Hodgy - Fireplace: TheNotTheOtherSide
- Tech N9ne - The Storm
- Rihanna - Anti
- Phonte & Eric Roberson - Tigallerro
- Deerhoof - The Magic
- James Blake - The Colour In Anything
- Quantic presents Flowing Inferno - 1000 Watts
- Alsarah & the Nubatones - Manara
- Josef Leimberg - Astral Progressions
- Brutalist - Brutalist Mixtape

## 😕

- M.I.A. - AIM
- Joyce Manor - Cody
- Romare - Love Songs: Part Two
- The Weeknd - Starboy
- Logan Richardson - Shift
- YG - Red Friday
- Kanye West - TLOP
- deadmau5 - W:/2016ALBUM/
- Chance The Rapper - Coloring Book

## 🥴

- Esperanza Spalding - Emily's D+Evolution
- Mitski - Puberty 2
- J Cole - 4 Your Eyez Only
- BROOKZILL! - Throwback To The Future
- Samiyam - Animals Have Feelings
- Jean-Michel Jarre - Oxygene 3
- Frank Ocean - Blonde
- 9th Wonder - Zion
- Elzhi - Lead Poison

My previous AOTY lists: [2014](/posts/my-album-of-the-year-list-2014/), [2012](/posts/my-50-favourite-albums-of-2012/), and [2011](/posts/my-favourite-albums-of-the-year-2011/)