---
title: "My Albums of the Year: 2023"
description: "Here's my list of the best albums of 2023"
pubDate: "02 Jan 2024"
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
tags: ['AOTY', 'music']
---

Happy new year!

It's that time again where I show you my favourite albums of the previous year and this is my biggest list yet. I set myself a target of listening to 2 albums per day on average and I succeeded with 15 minutes left! That means I went through 730 albums and over 250 hours from a variety of genres.

Below is my "best of the rest" list and I'm sure there'll be something for everyone to enjoy.

In alphabetical order:

* **2 Mello** – _PHD - PORTABLE HEADPHONE DANCEFLOOR_
* **Akira The Don** – _LOFI CHRISTMAS VI_
* **Anthony Naples** – _orbs_
* **B. Cool-Aid** – _Leather Blvd._
* **Blaz** – _The EPS Project_
* **Brelstaff** – _Novel for the Moon_
* **CARRTOONS** – _Saturday Night_
* **Cicada** – _棲居在溪源之上Seeking the Sources of Streams_
* **Cleo Sol** – _Gold_
* **Cleo Sol** – _Heaven_
* **Close Counters** – _SOULACOASTA II_
* **Corinne Bailey Rae** – _Black Rainbows_
* **Cory Wong** – _The Lucky One_
* **Declaime & Theory Hazit** – _ROCKETMAN_
* **earfluvv & aroma** – _Sonic Oddities_
* **Eddie Chacon** – _Sundown_
* **Feist** – _Multitudes_
* **Gas Lab** – _Vision_
* **Genesis Owusu** – _STRUGGLER_
* **Gianni Brezzo** – _Soundscapes Vol. 1 - Music for Harlequins_
* **Godblesscomputers** – _Faded Views_
* **H.C. McEntire** – _Every Acre_
* **Halibab Matador** – _Souvenirs_
* **Hannah Jadagu** – _Aperture_
* **Jazzbois** – _Higher Dimension Waiting Room_
* **Jessie Ware** – _That! Feels Good!_
* **JPEGMAFIA & Danny Brown** – _SCARING THE HOES_
* **Jungle** – _Volcano_
* **Kaidi Tatham** – _The Only Way_
* **KAYTRAMINÉ** – _KAYTRAMINÉ_
* **King Tuff** – _Smalltown Stardust_
* **Koralle** – _Insomnia_
* **Kumar Shome and The Punkawallahs** – _Kanya_
* **Little Dragon** – _Slugs of Love_
* **Louie Zong** – _Cosmos_
* **Louie Zong** – _Let's-A Go!_
* **Lucinda Chua** – _YIAN_
* **Marques Murrey** – _Chai Tea Vibes Vol. 6_
* **Mitski** – _The Land Is Inhospitable and So Are We_
* **Nu Vintage** – _Vibrations In Color_
* **Paramore** – _This Is Why_
* **Phil Ranelin and Wendell Harrison** – _JID016_
* **Rob Araujo** – _Twitch Tape 001_
* **Scott Orr** – _Horizon _
* **Shade Cobain** – _The Jam_
* **Skyzoo x The Other Guys** – _The Mind Of A Saint_
* **sndtrak** – _FLIPS V2: FLIP-TUCK _
* **snowpoint lounge** – _失われた時間_
* **strange dust** – _Strange Company_
* **Suff Daddy** – _Hair of the Dog_
* **Tapioca** – _Samba em Kilagi_
* **tee_illa** – _Kalakuta_
* **TellyMclean** – _Mia Wallace Loves Red Apple Cigarettes_
* **The Murder Capital** – _Gigi's Recovery_
* **THEWRKNMAN** – _Obscurities Vol. 1_
* **TSURUDA** – _bootlegs n stuff vol. 1_
* **Unknown Mortal Orchestra** – _V_
* **Victoria Monét** – _JAGUAR II_

**Previous lists**: [2012](/posts/my-50-favourite-albums-of-2012/) | [2014](/posts/my-album-of-the-year-list-2014/) | [2016](/posts/aoty-2016/) | [2021](/posts/aoty-2021/) | [2022](/posts/aoty-2022/)